                                                                                                                                    
                FOURTH CATALOG OF ORBITS OF VISUAL BINARY STARS                                                                     
                                                                                                                                    
                          C.E. Worley and W.D. Heintz                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
                           DESCRIPTION OF THE CATALOG                                                                               
                                                                                                                                    
       Table 2 lists the orbit catalog, where most of the data presented are                                                        
identifiable by the column headings. Each orbit requires two lines of data ar-                                                      
ranged in 11 columns. A brief explanation of the items follows:                                                                     
                                                                                                                                    
Column 1   line 1  The Right Ascension for 2000.                                                                                    
                2  The name(s) of the star, and the components involved.                                                            
       2        1  The Declination for 2000. An asterisk following this value                                                       
                   indicates a Note.                                                                                                
                2  (Continuation of the name, or components, if necessary).                                                         
       3        1  The ADS number.                                                                                                  
                2  (Continuation of the name, or components, if necessary).                                                         
       4        1  The magnitude of component A.                                                                                    
                2  The spectral type of component A.                                                                                
       5        1  The magnitude of component B.                                                                                    
                2  The spectral type of component B. An asterisk following this                                                     
                   value indicates that the spectral types have been inferred                                                       
                   from a combined spectrum and a known magnitude difference,                                                       
                   as previously discussed.                                                                                         
       6        1  The period in years, P.                                                                                          
                2  The time of periastron passage, T.                                                                               
       7        1  The semi-major axis, a, in seconds of arc.                                                                       
                2  The eccentricity, e.                                                                                             
       8        1  The inclination, i.                                                                                              
                2  The longitude of periastron, omega, reckoned from the node
                   as listed.
       9        1  The node. An identified ascending node is indicated by an
                   asterisk following the value.
                2  The equinox (if any) to which the node refers.                                                                   
       10       1  The grade, followed by the date of the last observation
                   used in the computation, when known.
                2  Inclusive dates for which an ephemeris is given by the                                                           
                   author.                                                                                                          
       11       1  The computer of the orbit.                                                                                       
                2  The reference.                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
In addition, an ephemeris has been included for each orbit entry for dates
1990.0 to 2009.0. The ephemeris gives Date, Position Angle (P.A.), and
Separation (Sep) calculated from the orbital parameters. It should be noted
that the "accuracy" of the ephemeris quantities may be less than that
displayed, especially for orbits of Grade 5.
